---
layout: default
title: 22oct - Design insp. & UI
nav_order: 89
description: "E-TKT"
parent: 🧬 iterations
---

# **Design inspiration & UI** / October, 2022   

Now for a conceptual and reflective update to discuss a bit about design inspiration.

First, remember that E-TKT is all about anachronism, which means it aims on manipulating the order things logically have/are ocurring in an unusual way while presenting something odd but logically plausible. Think of "what could have happenned if ______?"

Expanding that further on, I wanted to reflect that into the digital interface accessed through the smartphone.

**Physical informs the digital**
Green characters on black, dull gray boxes, overwhelming gradients, shinny reflective icons and long shadows over colorful flat interface elements were some of the visual design trends we've been interacting with for the past 50 years (well, not all that time in my case).

But there is a theme that resurfaces from time to time: skeuomorphism(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skeuomorph), which in a nutshell is the idea of emulating physical characteristics of original objects as ornaments in derivative ones. A well-known example is Apple iCalendar, which had leather textures in its interface to create familiarity with the traditional physical calendar that used that material for functional and aesthethic reasons.

Dieter Rams, an industrial designer best known for his Braun creations, had a great influence on Apple products, both physical and digital. That includes a calculator that inspired Apple's software version that came with Mac OSX.

*What should we keep?*
When looking to the device and more specifically the daisy wheel, I though about old typewriters and there is no doubt that Olivetti came to mind as one of the major Italian design symbols of the XX century. My parents still have an electric typewritter from that brand.

Then I remembered my industrial design classes when I first knew about Divisumma 18(https://www.moma.org/collection/works/3805) and its amazing yellow, simple and compact aspect. It was designed by Mario Bellini in 1972.

Apart from its great shape that was very contrasting to the bulky machines at the time, perhaps the most attractive characteristic is on the buttons that almost BEG to be pressed. That was well though by Bellini, that based it on anthropomorphism concepts. Another "ism" that focuses attributing human characteristics on non-human things.

The boundaries of our body are made of skin-covered meat. What is our touch be sensibilized and actuated back with?

Well, displays are hard to the touch, but we can "borrow the screen" dinamically for things that are not critical, thus having a world of possibilities by using visual, audible and/or haptic cues to emulate the juicy physical stuff.


PS: as an "accidental" phylosophical loophole, Olivetti was(is) based in Ivrea, Italy. Yes, the same place where Arduino got born many decades later.

...anachronism as tool for finding atemporal loopholes!


**Wait a minute... but what about E-TKT's UI?**
All of that to say that I have reached a final version for the user interface for the web app by extracting the essence of the concepts discussed above.

The color pallete is now following a blue-yellowish duet. The buttons were rounded and for the colored ones, there is a light halo when pressed.

There is also a setup screen which I will talk a bit more in another update.

The soft pressing and illumination effect was achieved by using pure CSS and JS to minimize the data storage and transfer.







